## Deploy and Configure Servers, Instances, and Databases for Azure SQL
[[AzureSQLFundamentals]]

After you've selected a workload to either migrate to or create in Azure SQL, you need to plan your deployment, deploy accordingly, and verify that the deployment was successful. In this unit, you'll learn various methods for each step in the process.

## Pre-deployment planning

Before you start deploying things in Azure, it's important to understand what your requirements are and how they map to offerings in Azure SQL. Using what you learned in the Azure SQL introduction module, it's time to make a plan. You need to answer the following questions:

-   Deployment method: Azure portal or command-line interface?
-   Deployment option: virtual machine (VM), database, elastic pool, managed instance, or instance pool?
-   Purchasing model (Azure SQL Database only): DTU or vCore?
-   Service tier: General Purpose, Business Critical, or Hyperscale?
-   Hardware: Gen5, or something new?
-   Sizing: number of vCores and **Data max size**?

In addition, and perhaps before answering the preceding questions, you need to pick a workload that's going to either be migrated to Azure SQL or be "born in the cloud." If you're migrating, many tools and resources are available to help you plan, assess, migrate, and optimize your databases and application. Resources are provided at the end of this module.

### Resource limits

The Azure SQL introduction module described limits, rates, and capabilities (like IOPS or in-memory OLTP).But there are other resource limits that are affected by your choice of Azure SQL Managed Instance, Azure SQL Database, or options within these choices:

-   Memory
-   Max log size
-   Transaction log rate
-   Data IOPS
-   Size of tempdb
-   Max concurrent workers
-   Backup retention

The limits for Azure SQL Managed Instance and Azure SQL Database depend on your choice of purchasing model, service tier, and number of vCores (or DTU in Azure SQL Database only).

Azure SQL Managed Instance and SQL Database are platform as a service (PaaS) offerings. Restricting these choices should not inhibit your ability to fully use a SQL Server managed service.

Within a General Purpose Azure SQL Database instance, your choice of provisioned or serverless compute will also affect these limits. Before deploying, you should review what's included in what you plan to deploy, to ensure that you're starting out with what you need.

It's also important to know that Azure SQL resources have overall resource limits _per subscription_ and _per region_. If you need to increase your limits, it's possible to request a quota increase in the Azure portal.

