[[AzureFundamentals]]

## What are public, private, and hybrid clouds?

There are three deployment models for cloud computing: _public cloud_, _private cloud_, and _hybrid cloud_. Each deployment model has different aspects that you should consider as you migrate to the cloud.

**Deployment model**

**Description**

**Public cloud**

Services are offered over the public internet and available to anyone who wants to purchase them. Cloud resources, such as servers and storage, are owned and operated by a third-party cloud service provider, and delivered over the internet.

**Private cloud**

A private cloud consists of computing resources used exclusively by users from one business or organization. A private cloud can be physically located at your organization's on-site (on-premises) datacenter, or it can be hosted by a third-party service provider.

**Hybrid cloud**

A hybrid cloud is a computing environment that combines a public cloud and a private cloud by allowing data and applications to be shared between them.

## Cloud model comparison

### Public cloud

-   No capital expenditures to scale up.
-   Applications can be quickly provisioned and deprovisioned.
-   Organizations pay only for what they use.

### Private cloud

-   Hardware must be purchased for start-up and maintenance.
-   Organizations have complete control over resources and security.
-   Organizations are responsible for hardware maintenance and updates.

### Hybrid cloud

-   Provides the most flexibility.
-   Organizations determine where to run their applications.
-   Organizations control security, compliance, or legal requirements.
